[MUSIC]
My name is Garvey, I'm a global
staffing manager here at Google.
I've hired, I would say,
several hundred security engineers here
at Google over the last seven years.
Advice I'd give those
that are preparing for
their technical interviews, don't expect
that the interview will be a sort of
trivial exam of how many questions can you
answer in this sort of period of time.
I want to know, as an interviewer, does
the candidate understand the fundamentals
and can they explain them back to me?
Programs and applications that
I would recommend preparing for
when doing an entry level interview,
for example, Splunk, Wireshark,
understanding their functions,
their purpose.
If you can get to the point of
understanding their internals,
why they exist.
If they didn't exist,
how would you solve a problem?
Outside of that,
just understanding the fundamentals of
topics that exist within this space.
Network security, web application,
security knowledge,
operating system internals,
understanding and
mastering security protocols I think
that's an important place to start.
Practice answering open end questions.
They tend to be really difficult,
they're ambiguous by design,
they're complex by design.
You always want to start first
by asking clarifying questions.
Get information from your interviewer
to help you narrow down the focus of
the question itself, but also sort of
lower the scope of the problem, right?
Into something that you
can answer yourself,
that you know that you
feel comfortable with.
Organize your answer
through the STAR method.
It's a great way to organize yourself when
faced with a large open ended question,
it will help your interviewer
understand your train of thought.
Thinking out loud as well will help your
interviewer understand okay, this is where
Garvey's going with this answer,
if I need to help him, I can help him.
Maybe he doesn't get the entire answer, I
know he was on the right track because he
was thinking out loud,
I understood where he was going.
If you don't know the answer, that's fine.
Again, no one expects you to walk on
water, but we don't expect you to lie,
[LAUGH] if you will, right?
My ideal candidate is someone
who just loves to learn, right?
Someone that's humble, that's honest,
someone that can manage through ambiguity,
complexity in their own life, doesn't
necessarily have to be directly related to
cybersecurity, but someone that when
faced with a problem, runs towards it.
They're always a student, they're always
there to learn, always there to mentor,
lead others, and they demonstrate those
characteristics throughout their life.
Nerves during technical interviews,
I think that's pretty standard [LAUGH],
it's okay to be nervous, right?
I think it means you care.
There's a reason you're there.
There's a reason you find
yourself in that moment, right?
Someone has counted you in already.
They have belief in you and
this space needs you.
So, you know, I would say, trust yourself,
trust your gut, don't be afraid to fail.